Let's add a second input here to the edit product screen
and for that, I'll copy the existing input, the title input here, the next input let's say is there to
enter a price.
Now of course, that already means that we should configure one extra thing here. On the first input, it's
nice and it's good that we get the default text style soft keyboard which helps us with entering
normal text, here however, we'll enter a number.
So one thing we should do here which we already did earlier in this course too, I want to change that
type of keyboard I show
and this can be done by setting the keyboard type argument here and set that to TextInputType.
because text input type is a class with a couple of static properties, dot
and now here I think number makes a lot of sense because users should be able to enter a number here.
I want to keep that text input
action of next here because I still want to be able to go to the next input
after we confirm this, we don't have a next input yet but we'll add one soon
and with that change, we also see the price input and if we tap on it, we get the number keyboard which
is of course quite nice.
Now it would be nice to have that transition from title to price when we click the next button here
on the soft keyboard in the title input
and that's something we have to manage manually and we do that with the help of a so-called focus node.
In our edit product screen, in the state object there,
you can add a new final property, _priceFocusNode and you can name this however you want
of course and you create it with a value of focus node. Focus node is a class built into Flutter, we
instantiate it here and we store that focus node in the price focus node key here, in that property.
Now it's pretty normal when working with forms in Flutter that you do a bit of managing behind the
scenes, for example to manage which input is focused.
That's normal overhead you have when building forms because forms are relatively complex and thankfully
as you will see, the form widget here already takes away some of the complexity you would otherwise
have.
So why do we create a focus node now?
Because that focus node now can be assigned to a text input widget,
so to a text field widget, like this price widget here.
So there, we can add focus node does argument and point at the price focus node property which stores
the focus node for this. How can we use that focus node?
Well on the first element, on the first text input here, where you want to go to the second input when
this next button is pressed, you can listen to onFieldSubmitted. This will fire whenever this button
here is pressed, whenever this button in the bottom right corner here is pressed. There you get the value
that was entered in the field, I'm not interested in that though, so I'll add an underscore here to signal that
I'm not interested
but now we can use that focus node to move the focus from the first, from that title input to the second,
to the price input. For that we use another class named focus scope which is also built into Flutter
and made available with material.dart import and focus scope works a bit like theme and media query.
You use of context to connect it to the page so to say, to let it know where it is and then you have
a request focus method and request focus now takes a focus node.
So here we pass the price focus node and with that, we tell Flutter that when this first input is submitted,
so when this next button is pressed in the soft keyboard, we actually want to focus the element with
the price focus node and we assign that price focus node to the second text form field here. Hence
now if we save that and I press the next button here whilst the focus is on the title, you see it automatically
moves to the price and that's of course a nice user experience because it allows the user to enter something,
simply hit next and automatically go to the next input without the user having to manually tap into
that input.